# KINDRED_16S
First Insights into microbial changes within an Inflammatory Bowel Disease Family Cohort study

The prospective Kiel Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Family Cohort Study (KINDRED cohort) was initiated in 2013 to systematically and extensively collect data and biosamples from index IBD patients and their relatives (e.g., blood, stool), a population at high risk for IBD development. Regular follow-ups were conducted to collect updated health and lifestyle information, to obtain new biosamples, and to capture the incidence of IBD during development. By combining taxonomic and functional microbial data collected at successive time points with extensive anthropometric, medical, nutritional, and social information, this study aimed to characterize the factors influencing the microbiota in health and disease via detailed ecological analyses.
Using two dysbiosis metrics (MD-index, GMHI) trained on the German KINDRED cohort, we identified strong and generalizable gradients within and across different IBD cohorts (Malta, Sweden), which correspond strongly with IBD pathologies, physiological manifestations of inflammation (e.g., Bristol stool score, calprotectin, ASCA IgA/IgG), genetic risk for IBD and general risk of disease onset. Anthropometric and medical factors influencing transit time strongly modify bacterial communities. The strong patterns of overabundance and importance of various Enterobacteriaceae (e.g., Klebsiella sp.) and opportunistic Clostridia pathogens (e.g., C. XIVa clostridioforme) further characterize the IBD-specific communities, similar to highly consistent patterns of ectopic colonization with oral Veillonella sp., Cand. Saccharibacteria sp., Fusobacterium nucleatum, and others also influence physiological signs of inflammation but show little heritability/intrafamily transmission. Functionally, pathways involved in amino acid metabolism and flagellar assembly are beneficial and highly heritable, while mucolytic functions are associated with IBD. Broad-scale ecological patterns indicate drastic state transitions of communities into characteristically chaotic communities in IBD patients, which appear transferrable across cohorts.
